# TetzelCoin

The blockchain is a data structure that creates institutional memory.[1] By solving the [Byzantine Generals Problem](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Byzantine_fault_tolerance#Byzantine_Generals.27_Problem), the blockchain enables a group of individuals to agree that an event happened without any of these individuals needing to trust each other. Once consensus is reached about what happened nobody can tamper with the record of events. The record is further accessible to anyone who wishes to see it.

While the institutional memory that the blockchain creates is typically used to keep track of financial transactions, we cannot forget that financial transactions are social in nature. When Alice pays Bob 2.2 BTC for watching her dog she leaves a permanent artifact about the relationship between Alice and Bob. More than anything, the blockchain is a permanent and immutable record of human interactions.

The inability to forget an interaction is both a blessing and a curse. On the one hand it enables a host of exotic and disruptive technologies such as cryptocurrencies; on the other hand, it creates a slate that can never truly be wiped clean. If Alice hurts Bob by cheating him on a transaction then that transaction will be remembered forever. It doesn't matter if Bob forgives Alice in the end---the blockchain is incapable of removing the transaction and allowing Bob or society at large to forget that Alice cheated him.

How should we forgive, then, when we are unable to forget? How can we right a wrong that may repeatedly bubble up from the limitless memory of the blockchain?

TetzelCoin is a cryptocurrency designed to be a token for forgiveness. Since we cannot forgive and forget, users are able to define their sins in monetary terms and take appropriate action to correct their misdeeds.

Drawing on the history of the Catholic church, TetzelCoin defines an "appropriate" action as a kind of digital indulgence. While now no longer in use, indulgences previously allowed for a Christian to reduce their punishment for a sin after death by paying a "pardoner" money. The pardoner typically detailed exactly how much time off of purgatory could be exchanged for the money given. The practice was famously abused by Dominican friar Johann Tetzel leading up to the Protestant Reformation.

TetzelCoin's indulgences take a slightly different form. Since we do not know if a user has already confessed their sin, TetzelCoin requires a user to confess their sin to a priest-like smart contract in addition to simply paying it money for absolution. In return, users are given a token of their forgiveness in the form of TetzelCoin cryptocurrency. The amount of TetzelCoin each user receives is directly proportional to how much money is given. The confession and the amount of TetzelCoin that resulted from the transaction are recorded in the blockchain and displayed in a ledger of sins that anyone can view.

The proceeds from TetzelCoin will go to The Tetzel Fund, a 501(c )(3) that will purchase and cancel medical debt in the United States. Why? Seen in monetary terms, sins are frequently described as being a kind of debt. When we sin, we "owe" something to a person we may have harmed, society as a whole or God. Conversely, many societies view debtors unfavorably, regardless of how they became indebted. Having quantified our sins with TetzelCoin, we have the unique opportunity to exchange between "sins" by using the proceeds from TetzelCoin to purchase debt, another kind of sin. However, in this case we can further right our wrongs by choosing to buy and cancel medical debt, a debt born out of an unjust system that disproportionately harms the poor.

[1] For an excellent treatment of the blockchain and memory I highly recommend Venkatesh Rao's [Blockchains Never Forget](https://www.ribbonfarm.com/2017/05/25/blockchains-never-forget/), which served as an inspiration for this piece.
